Add `rsonpath` transformations using `rsonpy` (#35)
panodata/tikray: docs/engine/rsonpath/index.md

[rsonpy] is a lightweight Python wrapper around the Rust library.

To learn fundamentals about rsonpath, please refer to the [rsonbook],
and specifically the [JSONPath reference].

:::{rubric} jqlang vs. rsonpath
:::

If you are asking what's wrong with `jq`, the authors provide
concise answers per [Why choose rsonpath?]:

<blockquote>

The most popular tool for working with JSON data is [jq], but it has
a few shortcomings:

- it is _extremely_ slow
- it has a _massive_ memory overhead
- its query language is non-standard.

To be clear, `jq` is a great and well-tested tool, and `rq` does not
directly compete with it. If one could describe `jq` as a “sed or awk
for JSON”, then `rq` would be a “grep for JSON”: It does not allow you
to slice and reorganize JSON data like `jq`, but instead outclasses it
on the filtering and querying applications.
</blockquote>

:::{rubric} Use cases
:::

<blockquote>
Rsonpath is made to filter document ahead of parsing/loading. Think of
it like a way to select a small part of the documents before
loading it into memory. It will shine in situations where you have a
JSON file too big to hold in memory, but you nevertheless want to load
parts of it.

> </blockquote>

Author: @charles-paperman: I've added fragments of your explanations from the other conversation to the [documentation page](https://tikray--35.org.readthedocs.build/engine/rsonpath/) per c022b06d84. Let me know if you want to see any changes or additions.

(rsonpath-guide)=
# rsonpath

Yet another rsonpath cheat sheet.

## Introduction

[rsonpath] is a blazing fast JSONPath query engine written in Rust.
It allows to run structure-aware JSONPath queries on JSON data
as easily as one would query a string with regular expressions.
The [JSONPath standard] defines a query expression syntax for
selecting and extracting JSON values from within a given JSON
value.
[rsonpy] is a lightweight Python wrapper around the Rust library.

To learn fundamentals about rsonpath, please refer to the [rsonbook],
and specifically the [JSONPath reference].

:::{rubric} Use cases
:::

> > Rsonpath is made to filter document ahead of parsing/loading. Think of

Author: ```suggestion
> Rsonpath is made to filter JSON data ahead of parsing/loading. Think of
```

> it like a way to select a small part of the documents before

Author: ```suggestion
it like a way to select a small part of the document before
```
